hello my name is Andrew I'm here with
textile I just want to take an
opportunity to share what textile is
what we're trying to do and kind of
where we fit into this whole ecosystem
and what we're trying to help other
developers do and and end users so at a
high level textile is a suite of tools
for developers to build totally custom
resilient decentralized apps that can
connect anyone in the world and it
serves as a platform where those apps
can give users control and access of
their data and that's really the mission
at textile we really think that the
whole Internet should be transformed so
that users can have complete access and
ownership of the data that they create
if you think of the way that the
Internet has evolved since the early
days your personhood on the internet
used to be maybe a nickname and email
but over the years it's really evolved
to being everything from your your
nickname and your email to your browsing
history your dating profile your sexual
preferences everything about you is now
mirrored in digital data and its really
peculiar that we allow centralized
organizations to collect this data and
really own it so they own this really
deep and meaningful information about
each of us and it's actually a race
between many companies to grab as much
of this data as possible and never
return it to you in any functional
meaningful way so when we started
thinking about solutions to this problem
we realized that the internet just
really isn't set up for building
solutions to this problem and that's
when we found ipfs so we saw ipfs as
solving some really big problems to the
data ownership models of the web so ipfs
for us allows us to rethink that
relationship between users apps and
their data allowing us to break out of
the centralized web so some some of the
core features of ipfs like content
addressable data allow us to think about
data that's permissioned to applications
to use but can never be hidden from the
user can never be taken away from the
user and you can build on those simple
properties and think of a whole new
world
where data is permissioned out too many
apps and many services that can be
continuously adding new value on top of
your personal data without taking it
away from you so when we started
approaching that vision and thinking
about how we would build that we
realized that one of the first steps was
how do we get more developers who
believe in that kind of future to build
applications so that's what I mean when
I say its suite of tools for for
builders so if you're a developer and
you want to build products on ipfs that
are cross-platform so using mobile using
desktop using the web and you want to
give users accessing control of their
data and you want to leverage secure
building blocks so end-to-end encryption
encrypted and at rest data and all the
other good things that ipfs really
promotes then we try to make that easy
for you and on top of that our tools are
open source and pretty transparent so
what we think of is that these apps can
really build together we want to
collaborate with a community of
application builders and think about how
we can make a really valuable data set
for each individual user so some of the
a few of the examples of some of these
core tools that we make available to
developers are things like simple
identity tools so in textile we don't
take any extreme view about a textile
identity that you have to adopt but we
give every app access to things like a
shared registry of public keys that
people can attach display names and then
that and then that registry is actually
searchable so you can easily connect
users across across applications and
those are extendable so you can do more
than display names and avatars but you
can add you know other things for your
application specifically their dynamic
so users can change them customize them
for each application they're verifiable
obviously and and like I mentioned
they're discoverable and and all things
are cross application here encryption
everywhere so a big thing with using
ipfs in consumer applications is you
really want to be thinking a lot about
how you're going to deal with encryption
and how you're gonna deal with storing
private keys on behalf of users and
giving users those those keys at the end
of the day and so in textile
things that happens is every user gets a
private wallet and inside of that wallet
they can create any number of accounts
to attach to different applications and
textile sort of just makes this really
easy for application so you don't to
think deeply about how you're going to
do it you can just use the textile on
device api's to provision new wallets
and in the future we're moving really
quickly towards having services where
you can have simple Oh off base login
for users and behind the scenes on a
server side you can be provisioning
wallets for users who might not
necessarily want to manage private keys
or secret phrases today but where you
think over a couple of years
the Internet's moving and tools are
getting easier so you want to you want
to get those users on-boarded into your
application quickly today but make it so
they can always get that private wallet
back out and store it in the future the
next thing that your app is probably
going to want to do is synchronize data
so most applications that you use on
mobile devices are using a solution like
firebase for creating data on in the app
and synchronizing it with you know the
developer data or across users for say
like live chat and so we think about
this through solving this through a
decentralized database called threads
decentralized databases are always a
little bit more than just a traditional
database so a thread is actually the
database component of a thread is a
local sequel Lite database but then it's
a lot more on top of that for how you
can synchronize that data across many
users and it includes things like
pinning services so that data that
you're adding to threads gets is
recoverable in the future and it bakes
in all those all the steps of encryption
both at rest and in transit and they
also have rules for access control so
that users can you can have multiple
users join the same thread share and
collaborate on data sets and be totally
private among those users the next thing
is interoperability so we think that the
decentralized web the way that these
building blocks are coming together it's
really important that we think about how
you take the developments in one up
and make them accessible to the next
application and so what I mean by that
is illustrated with one of our sort of
cornerstone applications in textile
called textile photos so in textile
photos users can upload and share photos
in a in a release upcoming release
they'll be able to sync their entire
camera roll and have a private will have
their private wallet populated with
photos and so for a user that offers a
really great service where they can
encrypt and store all their photos on
ipfs and for other app developers that's
super interesting because the way those
photos are stored they're self
documenting and if another application
is given permission to that feed it can
it can immediately get access to all of
the users photos to to do other kinds of
services or you know filters or
rendering or other collaboration tools
and so this is just one type of feed but
we're looking at all other kinds of
feeds too so social media feeds video
feeds document feeds and thinking about
how many applications can be building
value for users in a lot of different
ways on these core feeds of data okay so
those are all the pieces that you would
be building an application on a device
or you know on a desktop application for
example but there's also some services
that we run on the network that help
make consumer applications run a little
bit more sort of fluidly on the network
and so we call those textile cafes their
textile nodes that basically run as as
in server mode so they're always online
and they help us add stability and
recoverability
and connectivity and so I'll explain
some of the things that cafes do for an
application that that provide these so
the the first thing that cafes do is
they pin threads and sew threads are
encrypted so this is a pretty visit
trustless flow so appear on the network
can take a thread one of these
decentralized databases stream it to a
cafe encrypted it in a way that the cafe
has no idea what's inside of it but the
cafe can actually store the blocks of
that of that thread and in that way this
a really important feature for most
consumer applications if the user were
to lose their phone as long as they have
their their root key or they have a
custodial service hanging on to that
they can recover their threads and so
they could go to the cafe where this
information was pinned unlock only
actually one row of the database and
then recover all the other rows
sequentially after that it's also a
great service for light clients that
don't want to hang on to an entire
database they can push history to a cafe
and just hang on to the latest
information so right so that's the
recovery services so users can designate
any cafe that they want to be providing
recovery services and they can actually
select multiple cafes and have
redundancy or run their own in their own
home if they want they provide user
connectivity tools so this is a really
common problem in consumer applications
where you have two peers that want to
communicate using lib p2p but one peer
is going to be offline you open your
phone you send a message you put your
phone down you close the app and in a
mobile device for example that app is
going to be aggressively shut down a lot
of times and so that you're you're not
necessarily gonna even find the other
peer on the network
they're not going to have their phone
open on that app and so what text takes
out cafes will do is what's called inbox
scene and so again they'll take an
encrypted blob on on my behalf and leave
it for you so that when you come back
online you can go to a cafe and ask hey
if I missed any messages and I'll say
here's a bunch of things for you to
download you grab them and you you
recover the state of your conversation
hosted wallets so this one's an asterisk
this is something that we're working on
now but giving users just traditional
login so then they can still get all the
benefits of encryption if they're not
quite ready to be managing their own
wallet and this for us is just really a
bridge to get more people to where we
want to go and there's a lot of other
great teams that are thinking about how
to solve the usability problems of
private wallets and storing secret
phrases and so we really want to tap
into them as they get get into the hands
of more users finally it's all
cross-platform so we have libraries and
in Android and iOS and react native
and JavaScript and golang and so you can
run things in the in the command shell
and you can run things on the mobile
device and this is really great because
it makes it so that you can move from an
idea to launching into users hands
really quickly it's an example of that
as a project I built for this weekend
that took about five hours it was it's
it's simply a game of tag but if you
think about the properties of a game a
tag it's a really fun system to try to
build in a decentralized network you
have verified exchanges of information
you have this this chain of events that
you want to know what the state is at
every step and so we started thinking
through this and and I think it was like
5:00 p.m. and a colleague of mine and I
were in a conversation we said we should
just build it into a mobile app and five
five hours later I had the workable demo
where people could be tagging each other
and so that's really exciting and it
lets you really think quickly and see
what's possible and then move on to
bigger ideas and that's what a lot of
teams are doing with textile now and if
you go to our we have a public slack
channel it's just if you go to slack
textile geo you can get the the invite
into that slot channel and we have a
really active community that's there
sharing what they're building and
thinking through things like how to how
structure their threads and how to build
interoperability so we have people
working on health data and documents and
and photos obviously and even more so
that's a really cool thing to check out
and that's the quick overview of textile
so thanks